<div class="title-card">
    <h1>Git Refresher</h1>
</div>

---

# What commands do you remember?

Let's try it locally first. 

Create an empty folder and `cd` into it.

Then, to initialize a local repository:

```bash
$ git init
```

**Note**: You cannot push to local repositories without setting up a remote to push to.

*Does anyone want to demo the commands?*

---

# Git refresher

If you don't have the repository locally:

```bash
$ git clone <repository-url>
```

If you want to push the latest changes:

```bash
$ git add -A
$ git commit -m "Commit message"
$ git push
```

Remember to create changes before *staging* (adding). Otherwise, nothing gets commited if there is nothing to *stage*. 

---

<div class="title-card">
    <h1>Markdown</h1>
</div>

---

# Markdown Cheat Sheet

https://www.markdownguide.org/cheat-sheet/

---

# Markdown Tutorial

https://www.markdowntutorial.com/


---


<div class="title-card">
    <h1>Text editing in terminals</h1>
</div>

---

# Text Editors - Windows: 

Nano is installed with Git Bash:

```powershell
$ nano <filename>
```

Or use external editors outside of the terminal:

```powershell
$ notepad <filename>
```

If you have VSCode installed:

```powershell
$ code <filename>
```


---

# Text Editors in *nix Systems

#### **Nano**: Simple and User-Friendly.

#### **Vi/Vim**: Advanced and Powerful: Offers extensive functionality for complex editing tasks.

**Multiple Modes**:

- **Normal Mode**: Default mode for navigation and command execution.

- **Insert Mode**: Allows typing and editing text, similar to standard text editors.

- **Visual Mode**: Enables text selection using arrow keys; supports standard clipboard operations.

- **Visual Block Mode**: Facilitates block-shaped text selection and manipulation.

---

# Quitting in Vim

If you forget to add a commit message with git, it will open Vim. It is useful to know how to quit.

Hit escape a couple of times to go to normal mode in order to run command with the colon symbol (`:`).

Save (**w**rite) and **q**uit:

```plaintext
:wq
```

Quit (requires a save first if there are unsaved changes)

```plaintext
:q
```

Quit without saving:

```plaintext
:q!
```


---

# Quitting

The last part is not only about files but it's generally useful how to quit any program in the terminal.

Different programs have different ways to terminate them. The most common are:

```plaintext
q
```

```plaintext
CTRL-C
```

```plaintext
CTRL-D
```

---

<div class="title-card">
    <h1>Push to GitHub exercises</h1>
</div>

---

# Let's try it with the semester repository

1. Let's add some markdown to the README.md file. Do you remember how to append text to a file from the terminal?

2. ???

3. ???

4. ???

5. Raise your hand once you have verified that the changes are on GitHub.


---

# Assignment - Collaborators

This is just a quick in-class assignment. It doesn't matter for the future who you choose as your collaborators.

1. In the GitHub UI, create a new repository titled `Test_Project_Tech_1`.
2. Go the `Settings`, top-right tab. Select `Collaborators` in the left pane. Click `Add people` and invite people sitting next to you.
3. Clone it.
4. Create a `.github` folder and add a file inside of it named `CONTRIBUTING.md`. This usually contains guidelines for contributing to the project. Add a headline called `Contributors` and write the alias of the contributors (be careful of using real names because of GDPR).
5. Each person adds their own name. Before pushing **ABSOLUTELY** make sure to run `git pull`. Then push.
6. See the results on GitHub.
7. Once satisfied, delete the repository at the bottom of `Settings` -> `General`.



