<div class="title-card">
    <h1>mvn and javac</h1>
</div>

---

# Using `mvn`

Maven provides a command-line tool called `mvn`.  

It is possible to install Maven as a command line tool to run independently from IntelliJ. 

This is great when deploying to production (servers without GUI), running in pipelines or for people who want to do things simpler and faster in the terminal.

I would recommend installing it so that you can run it anywhere but since we haven't learned about package managers we will make use of the executable program which `Spring Initializr` provides.

---

# Create a Maven wrapper to place your settings.

```bash
$ mkdir -p .mvn/wrapper
$ touch .mvn/wrapper/maven-wrapper.properties
```

In the created file add:

```properties
distributionUrl=https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/org/apache/maven/apache-maven/3.9.6/apache-maven-3.9.6-bin.zip
wrapperUrl=https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/org/apache/maven/wrapper/maven-wrapper/3.2.0/maven-wrapper-3.2.0.jar
```

Now try to run the `mvn` wrapper:

```bash
$ ./mvnw clean install
```

**Note**: Windows users should use `mvnw.cmd` instead of `mvnw`.

---

# Compiling Java by hand

1. Create a Java Hello World program and save the file as `Main.java`:

```java
public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        System.out.println("Hello, World!");
    }
}
```

2. Use the Java Compiler (pronounced Java-see):

```bash
$ javac Main.java
```

*What is the name of the file created and what do you think it contains?*

**Windows users note**: Javac comes with the JDK (Java Development Kit) but might not be included in your system's PATH.

3. Run the Java program:

```bash
$ java Main
```

---

# What is args?

1. Replace `Main.java` with:

```java
public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        for (String arg: args) {
           System.out.println(arg);
        }
    }   
}
```

2. Compile it again:

```bash
$ javac Main.java
```

3. Nothing happens when we run it?

```bash
$ java Main
```

*How can we define `args`? Try until you figure it out. Then raise your hand.*

---

# Java args

Are the command line arguments passed to the `main` method.

```bash
$ java Main arg1 arg2 arg3
```

In the above example, `args` will contain `["arg1", "arg2", "arg3"]`.

