<div class="title-card">
    <h1>Testing in GitHub Actions</h1>
</div>

---

# The Goal

We are going to use one of the programming projects from this semester where you have created tests and add a workflow for tests to it.

https://github.com/nicklasdean/pokemon-unit-tests

If you have the `pokemon unit tests` project then use your own.

Otherwise, fork, clone and open the following repository in IntelliJ.


---

# Improve the .gitignore

1. Go to [gitignore.io](http://www.gitignore.io) and select `Java` + `Intellij+all`.

2. Add to the `.gitignore` file in the root of the project and push it.

This ensure that we do not push `target` or the `.idea` files.

---

# Get it to work locally - Create the DB

Use any method you are comfortable with in creating a new database.

Create a new database called `pokemon`:

```mysql
CREATE DATABASE pokemon;
``` 

---

# Get it to work locally - Define the Environment Variables

Add the environment variables in the `Run` menu select `Edit Configurations...`.

If you don't see the environment variables field then click on `Modify options` and choose `Operating System` > `Environment Variables`.

Fill out the correct credentials. If you named the database `pokemon` then replace it below:

```text
DB_URL=jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/<database>;
DB_USER=<username>;
DB_PASSWORD=<password>;
```

Run the application.

Everything should work if you've done it correctly. 

---

# Run the tests locally

We want to exclude the database since it isn't used in the unit tests.

The reasoning is that we do not want to have to set up a database in GitHub Actions in order to run the tests.

Add the following annotation above the `SpringPokemonApplicationTests` class:

```java
@EnableAutoConfiguration(exclude = { DataSourceAutoConfiguration.class })
```

And import the following with it:

```java
import org.springframework.boot.autoconfigure.EnableAutoConfiguration;
import org.springframework.boot.jdbc.autoconfigure.DataSourceAutoConfiguration;
```

Now the tests should pass by running them via the Maven drawer > spring-pokemon > Lifecycle > ⚙️ verify.

---

# Create the workflow

We are going to follow the steps [here](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/tutorials/build-and-test-code/java-with-maven#using-a-maven-workflow-template).

Follow steps 1 - 7. 

Name the file `continuous_integration.yml` instead.

Remove the two instances of the following to ensure that tests run on all branches:

```yml
[ "main" ]
```

Look up the Java version in the `pom.xml`. If it isn't **17**, then change it in the suggested workflow file.

---

# Add Tests to the workflow file

Running `Maven Verify` will also run the tests. Add the verify step as described [here](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/tutorials/build-and-test-code/java-with-maven#building-and-testing-your-code).

Delete the following:

```yml
    # Optional: Uploads the full dependency graph to GitHub to improve the quality of Dependabot alerts this repository can receive
    - name: Update dependency graph
      uses: advanced-security/maven-dependency-submission-action@571e99aab1055c2e71a1e2309b9691de18d6b7d6
```

---

# Final workflow file

Take good care to indent properly.

```yml
name: Java CI with Maven

on:
  push:
    branches:
  pull_request:
    branches:

jobs:
  build:

    runs-on: ubuntu-latest

    steps:
    - uses: actions/checkout@v4
    - name: Set up JDK 17
      uses: actions/setup-java@v4
      with:
        java-version: '17'
        distribution: 'temurin'
        cache: maven
    - name: Run the Maven verify phase
      run: mvn --batch-mode --update-snapshots verify
    - name: Build with Maven
      run: mvn -B package --file pom.xml
```

---

# Finalize

1. Click on `Commit changes...`.

2. Go to Actions in GitHub, check out the run, find the `Run the Maven verify phase` step and scroll down to the bottom.

  Note: If the tests fail, there will not be a green check mark on the build job.

3. Optionally, to get the workflow file locally pull the latest changes.