<div class="title-card">
    <h1>SQL II, Keys, More SELECT</h1>
</div>

---

<div class="title-card">
    <h1>Primary Keys</h1>
</div>

---

# Why Primary Keys?

* **Data Integrity**: Ensures uniqueness if all other values are equal.

* **Performance**: Keys create indices which allows for fast queries. (Remember the `Indexed data Multiple files` slide from last week?).

* **Joining**: Can be used to join tables.

Joins = relationships between tables.

---

# Let's go back to the basic `games` example

```sql
CREATE TABLE games (
    title VARCHAR(250) NOT NULL,
);
```

---

# Let's make title the primary key

```sql
CREATE TABLE games (
    title VARCHAR(250) NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY
);
```

Alternative way:

```sql
CREATE TABLE games (
    title VARCHAR(250) NOT NULL,
    PRIMARY KEY (title)
);
```

Some like to collect all the keys at the bottom. It's a matter of preference. 

Try it out and answer:

*What happens if you do insert a row with a duplicate `title`?*

(The answer is also on a previous slide.)

---

# AUTO_INCREMENT ids

```sql
CREATE TABLE games (
    id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
    title VARCHAR(250) NOT NULL
);
```

`AUTO_INCREMENT` tells the database to generate a unique id for each row automatically.

`PRIMARY KEY` combined with `AUTO_INCREMENT` ensures that the column is unique and not null.

Try to insert a couple entries into the table.

*What happens if you specify the id manually?*


---

# Create an index

Speaking of indexing, a primary key only creates an index for the primary key column.

We can manually define a column as an index to improve lookup time.

```sql
CREATE INDEX idx_title ON games (title);
```

Now we can quickly look up games by titles.


---

# UNIQUE

When creating a column we can add the keyword `UNIQUE` to ensure all values are different.

**Potential trick question**: *Continuing with the `games` example, what can we define as unique?*

